So Randy, what is Linphone?
>> Well, Linphone is simply an open
source software, VoIP software,
that we've mentioned probably
a thousand times by now.
>> [LAUGH] Thousand, yeah.
All right.
>> At least.
>> At least, at least.
So, yeah as Randy says, there you go,
there's a little list of kinda some fun
facts about Linphone and before we go over
that, I just wanna kinda mention, yeah.
So, Linphone, open source, awesome and
available on all of those platforms,
pretty much everything.
I can't really think of any
other big one [CROSSTALK]
>> At least all the major
platforms, right?
>> Yeah, all the major platforms.
So, you have you have iOS, Android,
the two major mobile platforms.
>> Yeah.
>> Then you have
Windows Phone which is kind of
trying to break through there.
>> Yeah.
>> Linux and Linux Desktop,
Windows Desktop and the OSX.
>> Mm-hm.
>> Right, so the Mac desktop.
Now, this just creates so
many possibilities for the developer,
because all of this is open source.
You can go in there,
grab this VoIP software, and
essentially mold it to whatever you
want and put it on your device.
>> Yeah, we mentioned many
times before with the Linphone
open source software that you downloaded,
that you probably should have downloaded
if you were in module one, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, so
then it has all the UI code in it.
It has all the core engine,
what VoIP needs to run, the SIP stacks or
your SIP account, all the other things.
>> Yeah, so
essentially with this software,
you have a program that was designed,
that takes care of all of the core
functionalities of a VoIP software.
But also allows you to manipulate or
change the UI, like Randy just said.
So, you have pretty much
access to everything, and
you can make a VOIP software,
just make it your own, right?
>> Extend it.
>> Yeah, cool, so Linphone,
very cool software.
We highly recommend you downloading it and
trying it out on your Dragonboard 410C,
whether you're running Ubuntu or
whether you're running Android.
We are going to go over the set
up process in a second.
But yeah, it'll give you a nice chance
to kind of see what's going on there.
All right, from the website,
from the Linphone website.
You can kind of see a little chart, kind
of like a, what is it, like a cake chart.
>> Yeah, so you see how everything
stacks on top of each other and
how they all interact in a way.
>> Yeah, so
how everything is interacting and
then stacked on top of
the operating system itself.
Now, we're not gonna
go too much into this.
I just think it's interesting for
you to take a look at it.
The architecture of everything and
how it uses the SIP,
uses the codecs,
uses the real time transfer.
And then takes the libraries that it made,
for all the core functionalities and
the UI and just stacks it all on
top of each other and it works.
>> Right.
>> So, you have access to all this.
You can get the source code,
wanted to talk a little bit
though about the Lib library.
This is kind of your core library.
It's in charge of all
the functionalities of Linphone.
Now, you can go in there and mess with
this stuff or you can go in there and
use some of the stuff.
Take it and apply it to what we're
building later on in this course.
Maybe our application isn't
intricate enough for you.
Go in there and learn how the developers
made some really cool stuff.
>> Maybe you wanna implement some kind
of instant messaging through Wi-Fi
instead of your text messaging data
network or something like that?
>> Yeah.
>> Just add to this app, download it on
your phone, put it on your Dragonboard and
just text each other.
>> Yeah, essentially,
it's a bullet point there,
but it makes it possible for
anyone to take an application of theirs,
whether it's a game, I don't know,
just any application you can think of.
Boggle that we went over earlier.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And
if you want to implement
some form of communication.
Say like he's playing Boggle at his house
and I'm playing Boggle at my house, and
we wanna chat with each other
while we're playing Boggle.
Well, inside the Linphone source code,
there's a way to use it and
implement it on your application.
>> Right, exactly.
>> So, yeah,
we're not gonna be doing that.
We're going too deep into it.
But we just wanna kinda let
you know that it's possible.
>> Possible, yeah.
>> Yeah, so
another little kind of snippet here,
just going a little bit
more into the [CROSSTALK].
>> [CROSSTALK] Yeah?
>> Yeah, the three little
things in the middle layers.
We told you RTP would come back.
What's good about RTP?
>> Yeah, so we would need to use
Real-time Transport Protocol, because
when you're talking to someone on the
phone, you probably want it in real time.
What's the point of telling someone oh,
I see a really nice car, check it out?
Or you should like, I don't know,
I don't know, whatever.
>> [LAUGH]
>> This crazy thing happened but
on the other end, they receive it,
say, like ten seconds later.
And now [CROSSTALK]
>> I might as well just
leave a voice mail.
>> Exactly.
[LAUGH]
>> Cool, so anyways, there you go.
That's the whole idea of what Linphone is.
The open source aspect of it is amazing,
all the platforms you can use it on.
>> How would you say, the intricate nature
of the program put in a simple way for you
to manipulate either the user interface or
the basic core functionalities.
Everything's there for you.
Take some time, check it out and
we'll see you in the next video.